The Woes of Programming
===

One must perform perfectly.
---

> The computer resembles the magic of legend in this respect, too. If one
> character, one pause, of the incantation is not strictly in proper form, the
> magic doesn't work. Human beings are not accustomed to being perfect, and few
> areas of human activity demand it. Adjusting to the requirement for perfection
> is, I think, the most difficult part of learning to program.

Other people set one's objectives
---

> Other people provide one's resources, and furnish one's information. One
> rarely controls the circumstances of his work, or even its goal. In management
> terms, one's authority is not sufficient for his responsibility. It seems that
> in all fields, however, the jobs where things get done never have formal
> authority commensurate with responsibility.

Dependence on other programs
---

> Other people's programs are often maldesigned, poorly implemented,
> incompletely delivered (no source code or test cases), and poorly documented.
> So one must spend hours studying and fixing things that in an ideal world
> would be complete, available, and usable.

Fast Technological Advancements
---

> The technological base on which one builds is always advancing. As soon as one
> freezes a design, it becomes obsolete in terms of its concepts. But
> implementation of real products demands phasing and quantizing.

Takeaway for a Lead
---

 [[suggestions-for-a-good-team-lead]]

> The obsolescence of an implementation must be measured against other existing
> implementations, not against unrealized concepts. The challenge and the
> mission are to find real solutions to real problems on actual schedules with
> available resources.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[suggestions-for-a-good-team-lead]: ../../suggestions-for-a-good-team-lead.md "Suggestions for a Good Team Lead"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"